README.md, before:

# Intro to Git and GitHub
Presentation and supporting assets for the Vermont Works for Women SUIT Intro to Git and GitHub workshop.

We’re using GitHub’s desktop application) for Git, so the difference between Git and GitHub may seem blurry. If it helps keep things straight in your head, the things we do in the desktop application are Git things—we could do them through the command line as well, and they are all about version control. Things we do through the browser will be unique to GitHub, and will focus more on collaborating with the world outside your project.

We won't cover the command line interface (CLI) in the workshop, but the slide deck contains the commands you need, in case you want to explore using the CLI in the future.

## What is Git?

Git is an open-source, **distributed** **version control system**.

A *version control system* allows you to keep track of changes to documents, making collaboration easy. *Distributed*, in this case, means that each user has a copy of the repository on their own computer that syncs with a remote server only when you're ready for it to do so. This makes changing files and storing them fast and provides numerous backups since every user has a copy on their own machine.

The distributed aspect (and its advantages) is one major difference between Git and the version control systems that came before it (such as CVS and Subversion), and one of the main reasons it has grown to be one of the most common version control systems in use today.

Version control systmes are widely used for things involving code, but you can version control images, documents, and any number of file types.

## What is GitHub?

At its most basic, GitHub is a web-based hosting service for Git **repositories** (think of a *repository* as a project, or collection of your files). But, GitHub is also part-social-network (for developers); part-all-in-one bug tracking tool; part-open-source-facilitator (everyone can see your code and can edit it if you allow it); and much more.

GitHub also allows you to host basic websites directly from your repositories. This is how we manage the Vermont Works for Women SUIT page.

## Git Basics

Commands we learn:

- Init
- Add
- Status
- Commit
- Reset
- Log
- Branch
- Checkout
- Merge

## Collaboration

### Setting Up Remotes
So far, everything we've done has been on our own computer. There's not much collaboration.

This is where GitHub comes in. If we connect our local repository to a remote repo hosted by GitHub, suddenly we can share our code with others and work together.

Commands involved:

- Push
- Pull
- Remote

### Forking
GitHub only allows designated collaboraters to commit changes directly to a repository. 

If you want to commit to someone else's repo, or want to use one as a starting point for your own project, you have to **fork** it through GitHub.

Once you've forked it, you can clone it to your your computer and work on it using all the skills we've learned so far.

Commands involved:

- Clone

### Pull Requests
Once you've commited changes, you can use **pull requests** to ask the original project’s collaborators to incorporate your changes into their repository.

Things to keep in mind:

- Always read READMEs and any code standards documents in the project, and follow the guidelines they set
- Thoroughly test your changes before submitting a pull request
- If you're fixing a bug, make sure you connect the pull request to a bug reported on GitHub. If one doesn't exist, file it first, then fix it

## Lab Time

- Fix one typo in this presentation and submit a pull request
- Find something interesting, fork it, check out your fork locally

## Resources

[Git-scm.com](http://git-scm.com/) is the homepage of the Git project, that will direct you to many resources, GUIs, downloads, etc. 

[Try Git](https://try.github.io/levels/1/challenges/1) is a free introduction to Git that allows you to try the basic commands directly in your browser, thanks to Code School.

[Pro Git](http://git-scm.com/book/) by Scott Chacon and Ben Straub is available for free online. It's very comprehensive, and a go-to resource.

Commit message:

Update README.md with a link to the demo repo

README.md, after:

# Intro to Git and GitHub
Presentation and supporting assets for the Vermont Works for Women SUIT Intro to Git and GitHub workshop.

See the repo we built in the slides here: [raearnold/hello-world](https://github.com/raearnold/hello-world)

We’re using GitHub’s desktop application) for Git, so the difference between Git and GitHub may seem blurry. If it helps keep things straight in your head, the things we do in the desktop application are Git things—we could do them through the command line as well, and they are all about version control. Things we do through the browser will be unique to GitHub, and will focus more on collaborating with the world outside your project.

We won't cover the command line interface (CLI) in the workshop, but the slide deck contains the commands you need, in case you want to explore using the CLI in the future.

## What is Git?

Git is an open-source, **distributed** **version control system**.

A *version control system* allows you to keep track of changes to documents, making collaboration easy. *Distributed*, in this case, means that each user has a copy of the repository on their own computer that syncs with a remote server only when you're ready for it to do so. This makes changing files and storing them fast and provides numerous backups since every user has a copy on their own machine.

The distributed aspect (and its advantages) is one major difference between Git and the version control systems that came before it (such as CVS and Subversion), and one of the main reasons it has grown to be one of the most common version control systems in use today.

Version control systmes are widely used for things involving code, but you can version control images, documents, and any number of file types.

## What is GitHub?

At its most basic, GitHub is a web-based hosting service for Git **repositories** (think of a *repository* as a project, or collection of your files). But, GitHub is also part-social-network (for developers); part-all-in-one bug tracking tool; part-open-source-facilitator (everyone can see your code and can edit it if you allow it); and much more.

GitHub also allows you to host basic websites directly from your repositories. This is how we manage the Vermont Works for Women SUIT page.

## Git Basics

Commands we learn:

- Init
- Add
- Status
- Commit
- Reset
- Log
- Branch
- Checkout
- Merge

## Collaboration

### Setting Up Remotes
So far, everything we've done has been on our own computer. There's not much collaboration.

This is where GitHub comes in. If we connect our local repository to a remote repo hosted by GitHub, suddenly we can share our code with others and work together.

Commands involved:

- Push
- Pull
- Remote

### Forking
GitHub only allows designated collaboraters to commit changes directly to a repository. 

If you want to commit to someone else's repo, or want to use one as a starting point for your own project, you have to **fork** it through GitHub.

Once you've forked it, you can clone it to your your computer and work on it using all the skills we've learned so far.

Commands involved:

- Clone

### Pull Requests
Once you've commited changes, you can use **pull requests** to ask the original project’s collaborators to incorporate your changes into their repository.

Things to keep in mind:

- Always read READMEs and any code standards documents in the project, and follow the guidelines they set
- Thoroughly test your changes before submitting a pull request
- If you're fixing a bug, make sure you connect the pull request to a bug reported on GitHub. If one doesn't exist, file it first, then fix it

## Lab Time

- Fix one typo in this presentation and submit a pull request
- Find something interesting, fork it, check out your fork locally

## Resources

[Git-scm.com](http://git-scm.com/) is the homepage of the Git project, that will direct you to many resources, GUIs, downloads, etc. 

[Try Git](https://try.github.io/levels/1/challenges/1) is a free introduction to Git that allows you to try the basic commands directly in your browser, thanks to Code School.

[Pro Git](http://git-scm.com/book/) by Scott Chacon and Ben Straub is available for free online. It's very comprehensive, and a go-to resource.
